Response to some of the queries TCS had. We also have added a
summary of the SiSEC ASY 2015 data set, and added the microphone set up description
used at IISc.

TCS queries and response:
-------------------------

> We are thinking about the following way to collect speech data.

> 1) We will have 3 persons (initially) sitting in a semi-circular manner in our lab around a circular table.

- What would be the room dimensions and kind of room (acoustic characteristics)
  ? For instance, if the room is too big the effect of reverberation may not be
  critical. 

> 2) We will have 3 mobile phones (initially) placed linearly at the centre of the table.

- Size of the table, and distance from the speaker (or participant) will be
  critical.

> 3) The distance between the 3 mobile phones will be 20 cms.

- We need to know the type of microphones and their placements in each phone (it seems some
  phones have two microphones). A rough estimate assuming uniformly placed
  linear array (with M=3 microphones) of d=20 cm separation provides a resolution of
  2 degrees (del_theta = lambda/(M-1)d) in broadside. So this might be
  sufficient to start with. For reference, the SiSEC challenge has 4 IC
  recorders separated by 5 cm apart. 

> 4) Later on, we can vary this set-up in many ways, e.g. number of persons,
> number of mobile phones, array types, including a clap as a syncing sound
> etc.

- Agreed. We also need a mechanism to estimate the room impulse response (RIR). 
- The clap can help us identify 'drifts' across the various devices. SiSEC ASY
  2015 challenge mentions the approach they used to measure drifts. 


> I have following questions regarding the above set-up:

> 1) Does the above seem like a good start? 
- Yes. But we would also want to have other parallel data acquisition mechanisms.
  These other mechanisms (better microphone setup, collar-phones) can provide
  better baselines (from an academic point of view). These can be connected to a
  PC through data acquistion card(s), e.g., as given in the IISc setup described
  below.
  One choice of collar microphone is :
  <http://www.bajaao.com/products/sennheiser-me-2-omni-directional-lavalier-ew-microphone>

- Along with this setup we can also use Kinect (we can provide one) which has 4
  channels to record the meeting. This output can be connected thorugh a USB to
  the PC.

> 2) Since we will use 3 mobile phones of 3 different makes, will the channel difference hinder beamforming?
- By channel difference, are you referring to the gain in each of
  the microphone (phones), characteristics. Yes this scenario will be different from the typical
  scenario considered in the beamforming problem. This will be one of the main
  issues that need to be considered and addressed in such a scenario. The SiSEC
  ASY challenge is to address such problems.

- To begin with, we should consider using similar phones. More importantly we need to get access to the raw data (i.e.
  unprocessed audio before the phone's OS operates on it). From our initial
  enquiries, it seems that Moto series of phones allow direct 2-channel
  recording. Moto-E (costs around 5K) might be a possible choice.

> 3) How many recordings should we aim at?
- Before making too many recordings, we should attempt few recordings and
  understand the setup better. 

> 4) Any other obvious pit-falls/pointers that you can point out ?
- Points noted above need to be considered. 


SiSEC ASY 2015 summary:
-----------------------
This is a brief summary of the SiSEC 2015 challenge 'asynchronous recording'
data set/challenge.

It consisted of two types of data (tests). The data from 'test2' is in a realistic
recording scenario.

1) Data: (test1)
- Two environments
-- T60 - 250ms, microphones linearly placed, stereo microphone pairs 2.15cm apart
-- T60 - 300ms, microphones radially placed, stereo microphone pairs 7.65cm apart
The data corresponds to 3 microphone pairs in each setting. 

2) Data: (test2) - realistic recording
- 4 stereo IC recorders (SANYO ICR-PS603RM, Olympus LS-14)
- sources were loudspeakers, placed around a table

- signals and impulse responses are recorded in the same room with reverberation
  time of 800ms
- Channels within a recorder are synchronized and microphones are 5cm apart

- Two environments
-- real asynchornous recording using 4 stereo IC recorders
-- simulated recording using 4 stereo recording devices with aritifical drift
generated by resampling

- Recording/mixing condition
-- three or four speaker's utterances
-- real or simulated
-- mixing - real asynchronous recording, sum of asynchronous recordings os
source images, mixing using simulation
-- four pairs of stereo channels (synchronized within the stereo channel, but
not across)


In addition to the 'test' sets they also have 'dev' sets, which are similar to
the 'test' sets but they have given ways to generate mixtures using impulse
responses provided by them.


IISc microphone setup (provided by Prof. Chandra Sekhar Seelamantula from IISc): 
----------------------
Here are some specifications of the acoustic array setup at IISc. Note, the
microphones used are directional and probably meant for other applications. We
can consider the data acquisition card for our purpose and look at other
possible omni-directional microphones. 

*1.* ME66/KP6 shotgun Sennheiser microphones with phantom power module
XLR-3 male connectors for outputs. (approx cost of microphone assembly is
Rs.27000)

*2.* M-track 8-channel M-audio Data Acquisition card.
High resolution USB 2.0 audio interface with octane preamp technology.
Mic - inputs 1-8 (Balanced XLR-3 female connectors)

*3.* Microphone cables: XLR-3 Female to male
 These cables are easily available in the market. We just need to ask for
"microphone cables" and the required length of the cable.

We need* Audacity software *installed on a linux/Windows machine to record
the sounds.
There is no additional software required for M-track DAQ.

More information is available at the following links.

For mic:
http://en-us.sennheiser.com/directional-microphone-shotgun-film-broadcast-me-66

For M-track DAQ:
http://www.m-audio.com/products/view/m-track-eight#.VsV-oo1961M
http://m-audio.com/kb/article/1723#caniuseanexternalmicrophone

